## Testing Alerting Logic

In an ideal world, monitoring and alerting code should be subject to the same testing standards as code development. While Prometheus developers are discussing devel‐ oping unit tests for monitoring, there is currently no broadly adopted system that allows you to do this.

At Google, we test our monitoring and alerting using a domain-specific language that allows us to create synthetic time series. We then write assertions based upon the val‐ ues in a derived time series, or the firing status and label presence of specific alerts.

Monitoring and alerting is often a multistage process, which therefore calls for multi‐ ple families of unit tests. While this area remains largely underdeveloped, should you want to implement monitoring testing at some point, we recommend a three-tiered approach, as shown in Figure 4-1.

Figure 4-1. Monitoring testing environment tiers

1. Binary reporting: Check that the exported metric variables change in value under certain conditions as expected.
2. Monitoring configurations: Make sure that rule evaluation produces expected results, and that specific conditions produce the expected alerts.
3. Alerting configurations: Test that generated alerts are routed to a predeter‐ mined destination, based on alert label values.

If you can’t test your monitoring via synthetic means, or there’s a stage of your moni‐ toring you simply can’t test, consider creating a running system that exports well- known metrics, like number of requests and errors. You can use this system to validate derived time series and alerts. It’s very likely that your alerting rules will not fire for months or years after you configure them, and you need to have confidence that when the metric passes a certain threshold, the correct engineers will be alerted with notifications that make sense.



